Add TiDB best practices on public cloud (#13564)
pingcap/docs: best-practice-on-public-cloud.md

Since v6.6.0, TiFlash support [compression exchange](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v6.6/explain-mpp#mpp-version-and-exchange-data-compression) to reduce the network traffic caused by MPP data shuffle.

# Mitigation of Live Migration Maintenance Events on Google Cloud

Google Cloud's [Live Migration feature](https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/instances/live-migration-process) enables VMs to be seamlessly migrated between hosts without causing downtime. However, these migration events can have an huge impact on the performance of VMs, including those running in a TiDB Cluster. This can result in slower query processing and longer response times.

To mitigate the performance impact caused by GCP's live migration events, TiDB provides a helpful [watching script](https://github.com/PingCAP-QE/tidb-google-maintenance). This script, based on Google's own metadata [example](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/python-docs-samples/blob/master/compute/metadata/main.py), can be found at the following GitHub repository: TiDB Google Maintenance. The script is deployed on TiDB, TiKV, and PD (Placement Driver) nodes within the TiDB Cluster.

> The purpose of the watching script is to detect maintenance events initiated by Google Cloud. When such events are detected, appropriate actions can be taken to minimize disruption and optimize the cluster's behavior. It's important to note that this watching script is specifically designed for TiDB Clusters deployed using the TiDB Operator, which provides additional management capabilities for TiDB in Kubernetes environments.

Reviewer: chatgpt says "It is worth emphasizing that this monitoring script is specifically tailored for TiDB Clusters deployed using the TiDB Operator, which offers enhanced management functionalities for TiDB in Kubernetes environments." is a better expression..... watching script 是官方也这么写吗？

By utilizing the watching script and taking necessary actions during maintenance events, TiDB clusters can better handle GCP's live migration events and ensure smoother operations with minimal impact on query processing and response times.

Google Cloud's [Live Migration](https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/instances/live-migration-process) feature allows VMs to be migrated between hosts without downtime. It's not a rarely occured maintenance event. During the event, the impacted VMs will performan much slower and impact the query proccsing response time in TiDB Cluster.
To mitigate the performance penalty from GCP's live migration event, TiDB provide a [watching script](https://github.com/PingCAP-QE/tidb-google-maintenance) based on the Google's own metadata [example](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/python-docs-samples/blob/master/compute/metadata/main.py). The scripts are deployed on TiDB, TiKV, and PD nodes, to detect maintenance events. During maintenance events, below appropriate actions can be taken, be noted that only TiDB Cluster deployed by [TiDB Operator](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb-in-kubernetes/dev/tidb-operator-overview) is supported:

> - TiDB: Put the TiDB offline by cordon the TiDB node and delete the TiDB pod (the node pool of TiDB instance MUST be set to auto-scale, the cordon node is expected to be reclaimed by auto-scaler)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- TiDB: Put the TiDB offline by cordon the TiDB node and delete the TiDB pod (the node pool of TiDB instance MUST be set to auto-scale, and be set to TiDB dedicated. Other pods running on the node would be interrupted when the node is cordon. The cordon node is expected to be reclaimed by auto-scaler)
```

- On GCP, it is recommended to use [pd-ssd](https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/disks#disk-types/) volumes. The IOPS and MBPS are dependent on the disk size allocated. To meet the performance requirement, it's recommended to allocate 200GB space for Raft-Engine. Although, Raft-Engine doesn't need this large space, it can provide the necessary performance.

- On Azure, it is recommended to use  [Premium SSD v2](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-machines/disks-types#premium-ssd-v2) volumes. Similar to AWS, it provides free 3000 IOPS and 125 MB/s throughput regardless of volume size allocated, which is usually sufficient for Raft-Engine.

#### High End Disk
If even lower latency is required for Raft-Engine, high-end disks are available. Here are the recommendations for different public clouds:

- On AWS, it is recommended to use [io2](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/ebs-volume-types.html) volumes. Disk size and IOPS can be provisioned according to the requirement.

> - On GCP, [pd-extreme](https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/disks#disk-types/) is recommended. Disk size, IOPS and MBPS can be provisioned, but it's only available on 64c+ instances.

Author: yes

- On Azure, [Ultra disk](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-machines/disks-types#ultra-disks) is recommended. Disk size, IOPS, and MBPS can be provisioned according to the requirement.

### Example 1, Run a social network workload on AWS
With 20GB [gp3](https://aws.amazon.com/ebs/general-purpose/) dedicated Raft-Engine disk, for a write intensive social network application workload, qps increases by 17.5%, avg latency of insert statement decreases by 18.7%, p99 latency of insert statement decreases by 45.6%, and the estimated cost is increased by only 0.4%. AWS provide 3000 IOPS and 125 MBPS/s for a 20GB [gp3](https://aws.amazon.com/ebs/general-purpose/) volume.

| Item | shared Raft-Engine disk|dedicated Raft-Engine disk| diff(%) |
| ------------- | ------------- |------------- |------------- |
| QPS (K/s)| 8.0 | 9.4 | 17.5| 
| AVG Insert Latency (ms)| 11.3 | 9.2 | -18.7 |
| P99 Insert Latency (ms)| 29.4 | 16.0 | -45.6|

### Example 2, Run TPC-C/SYSBench workload on AZure
By using a 32G Ultra disk for Raft-Engine on Azure:

- For sysbench oltp_read_write,  QPS up by 17.8%, avg latency is down by 15.6%.

> - For TPC-C, QPS up by 27.6%, avg latency down by 23.1%

Reviewer: 这里的 up 和 down 还未修改

| Item | Workload | shared Raft-Engine disk|dedicated Raft-Engine disk| diff(%) |
| ------------- | ------------- | ------------- |------------- |------------- |
| QPS (K/s) | Sysbench - oltp_read_write | 60.7 | 71.5 | 17.8| 
| QPS (K/s) | TPC-C | 23.9 | 30.5 | 27.6| 
| AVG Latency (ms)| Sysbench - oltp_read_write |  4.5 | 3.8 | -15.6 |
| AVG Latency (ms)| TPC-C |  3.9 | 3.0 | -23.1 |

### Example 3, how to attach a dedicated pd-ssd disk on Google Cloud for Raft-Engine on TiKV manifest

> Here is a example for a cluster deployed by TiDB Operator on Google Cloud, attach an additional disk with 512GB [pd-ssd](https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/disks#disk-types/) volumne, and change the `raft-engine.dir` to store Raft-Engine logs to this specific disk.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The following TiKV configuration example shows how to attach an additional 512GB [pd-ssd](https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/disks#disk-types/) disk to a cluster on Google Cloud deployed by TiDB Operator, with `raft-engine.dir` configured to store Raft Engine logs to this specific disk.
```

```
tikv:
    config: |
      [raft-engine]
        dir = "/var/lib/raft-pv-ssd/raft-engine"
        enable = true
        enable-log-recycle = true
    requests:
      storage: 4Ti
    storageClassName: pd-ssd
    storageVolumes:
    - mountPath: /var/lib/raft-pv-ssd
      name: raft-pv-ssd
      storageSize: 512Gi
```

> ## Reduce Compaction IO Flow In KV RocksDB

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Reduce compaction IO flow in KV RocksDB

```

> As the storage engine of TiKV, [RocksDB](https://rocksdb.org/) is used to store user data. The write amplification for RocksDB can be high and the workload may be bottlenecked on disk throughput. This is not uncommon because the provisioned IO throughput on cloud ebs is usually limited due to cost reason. Under this situation, the total number of compaction pending bytes will grow over time and flow control is triggered, indicating that TiKV doesn't have enough disk bandwith to keep up with the foreground write flow. In this case, to mitigate the bottleneck of disk throughput, increasing the compression level for the RocksDB and reducing the disk throughput can help improve performance. For example, below config increase all the compression level of the default column family to zstd.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
As the storage engine of TiKV, [RocksDB](https://rocksdb.org/) is used to store user data. However, because the provisioned IO throughput on cloud EBS is usually limited due to cost considerations, RocksDB might exhibit high write amplification, and the disk throughput might become the bottleneck for the workload. As a result, the total number of pending compaction bytes grows over time and triggers flow control, which indicates that TiKV lacks sufficient disk bandwidth to keep up with the foreground write flow. 

To alleviate the bottleneck caused by limited disk throughput, you can improve performance by increasing the compression level for RocksDB and reducing the disk throughput. For example, you can refer to the following example to increase all the compression levels of the default column family to `zstd`.
```

```
[rocksdb.defaultcf]
compression-per-level = ["zstd", "zstd", "zstd", "zstd", "zstd", "zstd", "zstd"]
```

> # Cost Optimization for Cross-AZ

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Cost Optimization for Cross-AZ

```

Deploying TiDB across multiple availability zones (AZs) can lead to increased costs due to cross-AZ data transfer fees. To optimize costs, it is important to reduce cross-AZ network traffic.

> One way to reduce cross-AZ read traffic is to use the [Follower Read feature](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/dev/follower-read), which allows TiDB prefers to select a replica in the same availability zone. This feature can be enabled setting tidb_replica_read variable to `closest-replicas` or `closest-adaptive`. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To reduce cross-AZ read traffic, you can enable the [Follower Read feature](/follower-read.md), which allows TiDB to prioritize selecting replicas in the same availability zone. To enable this feature, set the `tidb_replica_read` variable to `closest-replicas` or `closest-adaptive`. 
```

> To reduce cross-AZ write traffic For TiKV instance, gRPC compression feature can be enabled to compress data before transmitting it across the network. Below is the configuration example to enable gzip grp compression for TiKV.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To reduce cross-AZ write traffic in TiKV instances, you can enable the gRPC compression feature, which compresses data before transmitting it over the network. The following configuration example shows how to enable gzip gRPC compression for TiKV.
```

To mitigate the performance penalty from GCP's live migration event, TiDB provide a [watching script](https://github.com/PingCAP-QE/tidb-google-maintenance) based on the Google's own metadata [example](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/python-docs-samples/blob/master/compute/metadata/main.py). The scripts are deployed on TiDB, TiKV, and PD nodes, to detect maintenance events. During maintenance events, below appropriate actions can be taken:
- TiDB: Put the TiDB offline by cordon the TiDB node and delete the TiDB pod (the node pool of TiDB instance MUST be set to auto-scale, and be set to TiDB dedicated. Other pods running on the node would be interrupted when the node is cordon. The cordon node is expected to be reclaimed by auto-scaler)
- TiKV: Ecivt leaders on TiKV store during maintenance.
- PD: Resign leader if the current PD instance is the PD leader

It is worth emphasizing that this monitoring script is specifically tailored for TiDB Clusters deployed using the [TiDB Operator](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb-in-kubernetes/dev/tidb-operator-overview), which offers enhanced management functionalities for TiDB in Kubernetes environments.

> The purpose of the watching script is to detect maintenance events initiated by Google Cloud. When such events are detected, appropriate actions can be taken to minimize disruption and optimize the cluster's behavior. It's important to note that this watching script is specifically designed for TiDB Clusters deployed using the TiDB Operator, which provides additional management capabilities for TiDB in Kubernetes environments.

Reviewer: 我看上个段落 脚本的名称已经更改为   monitoring script 但是这里还是 watching  script ，可以全局修改统一一下

```
Device            r/s     rkB/s       w/s     wkB/s      f/s  aqu-sz  %util
sdb           1649.00 209030.67   1293.33 304644.00    13.33    5.09  48.37
sdd           1033.00   4132.00   1141.33  31685.33   571.00    0.94 100.00
```

The device `sdb` is used for KV RocksDB, while `sdd` is used to restore Raft Engine logs. Note that `sdd` has a significantly higher `f/s` value, which represents the number of flush requests completed per second for the device. In Raft Engine, when a write in a batch is marked synchronous, the batch leader will call `fdatasync()` after writing, guaranteeing that buffered data is flushed to the storage. By using a dedicated disk for Raft Engine, TiKV reduces the average queue length of requests, thereby ensuring optimal and stable write latency.

Different cloud providers offer various disk types with different performance characteristics, such as IOPS and MBPS. Therefore, it is important to choose an appropriate cloud provider, disk type, and disk size based on your workload.

### Choose appropriate disks for Raft Engine on public clouds

> This section outlines best practices for choosing appropriate disks for Raft-Engine on different public clouds. Depending on performance requirements, two types of recommended disks are available.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This section outlines best practices for choosing appropriate disks for Raft Engine on different public clouds. Depending on performance requirements, two types of recommended disks are available.
```

#### Middle-range disk

The following are recommended middle-range disks for different public clouds:

- On AWS, [gp3](https://aws.amazon.com/ebs/general-purpose/) is recommended. The gp3 volume offers a free allocation of 3000 IOPS and 125 MB/s throughput, regardless of the volume size, which is usually sufficient for the Raft Engine.

> - On GCP, [pd-ssd](https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/disks#disk-types/) is recommended. The IOPS and MBPS vary depending on the allocated disk size. To meet performance requirements, it is recommended to allocate 200 GB for Raft-Engine. Although Raft Engine does not require such a large space, it ensures optimal performance.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- On GCP, [pd-ssd](https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/disks#disk-types/) is recommended. The IOPS and MBPS vary depending on the allocated disk size. To meet performance requirements, it is recommended to allocate 200 GB for Raft Engine. Although Raft Engine does not require such a large space, it ensures optimal performance.
```

## PD tuning for a large-scale TiDB cluster with high QPS

In a TiDB cluster, a single active Placement Driver (PD) server is used to handle crucial tasks such as serving the TSO (Timestamp Oracle) and processing requests. However, relying on a single active PD server can limit the scalability of TiDB clusters.

### Symptoms of PD limitation
The following diagrams show the symptoms of a large-scale TiDB cluster consisting of three PD servers, each equipped with 56 CPUs. From these diagrams, it is observed that when the query per second (QPS) exceeds 1 million and the TSO (Timestamp Oracle) requests per second exceed 162,000, the CPU utilization reaches approximately 4,600%. This high CPU utilization indicates that the PD leader is experiencing a significant load and is running out of available CPU resources.

![pd-server-cpu](/media/performance/public-cloud-best-practice/baseline_cpu.png)
![pd-server-metrics](/media/performance/public-cloud-best-practice/baseline_metrics.png)

### Tune PD performance

To address the high CPU utilization issue in the PD server, you can make the following tuning adjustments:

#### Adjust PD configuration

> [`tso-update-physical-interval`](/pd-configuration-file#tso-update-physical-interval): This parameter controls the interval at which the PD server updates the physical TSO batch. By reducing the interval, the PD server can allocate TSO batches more frequently, thereby reducing the waiting time for the next allocation.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
[`tso-update-physical-interval`](/pd-configuration-file.md#tso-update-physical-interval): This parameter controls the interval at which the PD server updates the physical TSO batch. By reducing the interval, the PD server can allocate TSO batches more frequently, thereby reducing the waiting time for the next allocation.
```

Deploying TiDB across multiple availability zones (AZs) can lead to increased costs due to cross-AZ data transfer fees. To optimize costs, it is important to reduce cross-AZ network traffic.

To reduce cross-AZ read traffic, you can enable the [Follower Read feature](/follower-read.md), which allows TiDB to prioritize selecting replicas in the same availability zone. To enable this feature, set the `tidb_replica_read` variable to `closest-replicas` or `closest-adaptive`. 

To reduce cross-AZ write traffic in TiKV instances, you can enable the gRPC compression feature, which compresses data before transmitting it over the network. The following configuration example shows how to enable gzip gRPC compression for TiKV.

```
server_configs:
  tikv:
    server.grpc-compression-type: gzip
```

To reduce network traffic caused by the data shuffle of the TiFlash MPP tasks, it's recommended to deploy multiple TiFlash instance at the same availability zones (AZs).
Since v6.6.0, [Compression exchange](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v6.6/explain-mpp#mpp-version-and-exchange-data-compression) is enabled by default to reduce the network traffic caused by MPP data shuffle.

> # Mitigation of Live Migration Maintenance Events on Google Cloud

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
# Mitigate live migration maintenance events on Google Cloud
```

> Google Cloud's [Live Migration feature](https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/instances/live-migration-process) enables VMs to be seamlessly migrated between hosts without causing downtime. However, these migration events are not rarely occured and can have an huge impact on the performance of VMs, including those running in a TiDB Cluster. During the event, the impacted VMs will performan much slower and impact the query proccsing response time in TiDB Cluster.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Google Cloud's [Live Migration feature](https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/instances/live-migration-process) enables VMs to be seamlessly migrated between hosts without causing downtime. However, these migration events, although infrequent, can significantly impact the performance of VMs, including those running in a TiDB cluster. During such events, affected VMs might experience reduced performance, leading to longer query processing times in the TiDB cluster.

> To mitigate the performance penalty from GCP's live migration event, TiDB provide a [watching script](https://github.com/PingCAP-QE/tidb-google-maintenance) based on the Google's own metadata [example](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/python-docs-samples/blob/master/compute/metadata/main.py). The scripts are deployed on TiDB, TiKV, and PD nodes, to detect maintenance events. During maintenance events, below appropriate actions can be taken:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To mitigate the performance impact of live migration events on Google Cloud, TiDB provides a [watching script](https://github.com/PingCAP-QE/tidb-google-maintenance) based on Google's metadata [example](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/python-docs-samples/blob/master/compute/metadata/main.py). This script is deployed on TiDB, TiKV, and PD nodes to detect maintenance events. When a maintenance event is detected, appropriate actions can be taken as follows:
```

> - TiDB: Put the TiDB offline by cordon the TiDB node and delete the TiDB pod (the node pool of TiDB instance MUST be set to auto-scale, and be set to TiDB dedicated. Other pods running on the node would be interrupted when the node is cordon. The cordon node is expected to be reclaimed by auto-scaler)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- TiDB: Take the TiDB node offline by cordoning it and deleting the TiDB pod. This assumes that the node pool of the TiDB instance is set to auto-scale and dedicated to TiDB. Other pods running on the node might experience interruptions, and the cordoned node is expected to be reclaimed by the auto-scaler.
```

> - TiKV: Ecivt leaders on TiKV store during maintenance.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- TiKV: Ecivt leaders on the affected TiKV store during maintenance.
```

> - PD: Resign leader if the current PD instance is the PD leader

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- PD: Resign a leader if the current PD instance is the PD leader
```

> It is worth emphasizing that this watching script is specifically tailored for TiDB Clusters deployed using the [TiDB Operator](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb-in-kubernetes/dev/tidb-operator-overview), which offers enhanced management functionalities for TiDB in Kubernetes environments.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
It is important to note that this watching script is specifically designed for TiDB clusters deployed using the [TiDB Operator](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb-in-kubernetes/dev/tidb-operator-overview), which offers enhanced management functionalities for TiDB in Kubernetes environments.
```

> The purpose of the watching script is to detect maintenance events initiated by Google Cloud. When such events are detected, appropriate actions can be taken to minimize disruption and optimize the cluster's behavior. It's important to note that this watching script is specifically designed for TiDB Clusters deployed using the TiDB Operator, which provides additional management capabilities for TiDB in Kubernetes environments.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The purpose of the watching script is to detect maintenance events initiated by Google Cloud. When such events are detected, appropriate actions can be taken to minimize disruption and optimize the cluster's behavior.
```

Reviewer 3: the removed content is duplicated with line 142

> By utilizing the watching script and taking necessary actions during maintenance events, TiDB clusters can better handle GCP's live migration events and ensure smoother operations with minimal impact on query processing and response times.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
By utilizing the watching script and taking necessary actions during maintenance events, TiDB clusters can better handle live migration events on Google Cloud and ensure smoother operations with minimal impact on query processing and response times.
```

> # PD Tuning with large deployment cluster

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## PD Tuning with large deployment cluster
```

> 

Reviewer 3: 什么是 large deployment cluster

Author: 大集群，高QPS，有什么更好的建议吗？比如 high qps and high tso request?

In a TiDB Cluster, the architecture relies on a single active PD (Placement Driver) server to handle crucial tasks such as serving the TSO (Timestamp Oracle) and other requests. However, this single point of active architecture can potentially limit the scalability of TiDB clusters.

> ## Sympotoms of PD limiration

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Symptoms of PD limitation
```

> The example showcases a large cluster deployment consisting of three PD servers, each equipped with 56 CPUs. In the below graphs, it is observed that when the query per second (QPS) exceeds 1 million and the TSO (Timestamp Oracle) requests per second surpass 162,000, the CPU utilization reaches approximately 4,600%. This high CPU utilization indicates that the PD leader is experiencing significant load and is running out of available CPU resources.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The following diagrams show the sympotoms of a large cluster deployment consisting of three PD servers, each equipped with 56 CPUs. From these diagrams, it is observed that when the query per second (QPS) exceeds 1 million and the TSO (Timestamp Oracle) requests per second surpass 162,000, the CPU utilization reaches approximately 4,600%. This high CPU utilization indicates that the PD leader is experiencing a significant load and is running out of available CPU resources.
```

![pd-server-cpu](/media/performance/public-cloud-best-practice/baseline_cpu.png)
![pd-server-metrics](/media/performance/public-cloud-best-practice/baseline_metrics.png)

> ## PD Tuning

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Tune PD performance
```

> To address the high CPU utilization issue in the PD server, the following tuning adjustments can be made to the PD configuration:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To address the high CPU utilization issue in the PD server, you can make the following tuning adjustments:
```

> ### PD Configuration

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
#### Adjust PD configuration

```

> `tso-update-physical-interval`: This parameter controls the interval at which the PD server updates the physical TSO batch. By reducing the value, the PD server can allocate TSO batches more frequently, reducing the waiting time for the next allocation.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
`tso-update-physical-interval`: This parameter controls the interval at which the PD server updates the physical TSO batch. By reducing the interval, the PD server can allocate TSO batches more frequently, thereby reducing the waiting time for the next allocation.
```

```
tso-update-physical-interval = "10ms" # default: 50ms
```

> ### TiDB Global Variable

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
#### Adjust a TiDB global variable

```

> In addition to the PD configuration, adjusting a TiDB global variable can further optimize the TSO client's behavior. Enable the TSO client batch wait feature by setting `tidb_tso_client_batch_max_wait_time` to a non-zero value.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In addition to the PD configuration, enabling the TSO client batch wait feature can further optimize the TSO client's behavior. To enable this feature, you can set the global variable [`tidb_tso_client_batch_max_wait_time`](/system-variables.md#tidb_tso_client_batch_max_wait_time-new-in-v530) to a non-zero value.
```

```
set global tidb_tso_client_batch_max_wait_time = 2; # default: 0
```

> ### TiKV Configuration

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
#### Adjust TiKV configuration

```

> To reduce the number of regions and alleviate the heartbeat overhead on the system, it is recommended to increase the region size in the TiKV configuration from 96MB to 256MB.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To reduce the number of Regions and alleviate the heartbeat overhead on the system, it is recommended to increase the Region size in the TiKV configuration from `96MB` to `256MB`.
```

```
[coprocessor]
  region-split-size = "256MB"
```

## After Tuning

> Following the implementation of these tuning changes, the effects are observed in the graphs below:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
After the tunning, the following effects can be observed:
```

- The TSO requests per second have decreased to 64,800.
- The CPU utilization has reduced significantly from approximately 4,600% to 1,400%.
- The P999 value of "PD server TSO handle time" has decreased from 2ms to 0.5ms.

These improvements indicate that the tuning adjustments have successfully reduced the CPU utilization of the PD server while maintaining stable TSO handling performance.

![pd-server-cpu](/media/performance/public-cloud-best-practice/after_tuning_cpu.png)
![pd-server-metrics](/media/performance/public-cloud-best-practice/after_tuning_metrics.png)

# Conclusion

> By adhering to these best practices, TiDB deployments on the public cloud can achieve exceptional performance, cost efficiency, reliability and scability. The selection of the right dedicated disk type and size ensures optimal storage performance for Raft-Engine. Tuning TiKV's compaction settings improves resource utilization and reduces IO throughput. Minimizing cross-AZ read traffic helps optimize costs. Leveraging notification and taking proper actions mitigates performance impact during maintenance events. Tuning PD server addresses scalability bottleneck on a single active PD server.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
By following these best practices, TiDB deployments on public cloud platforms can achieve exceptional performance, cost efficiency, reliability, and scalability. 

The key practices include the following:

- Select the appropriate dedicated disk type and size for optimal storage performance with Raft-Engine, 
- Tune TiKV's compaction settings to improve resource utilization and reduce IO throughput, 
- Minimize cross-AZ read traffic to optimize costs, 
- Mitigate performance impact during maintenance events by leveraging notifications and taking appropriate actions
- Tuning the PD server to address scalability bottlenecks.
```

- TiKV: Ecivts leaders on the affected TiKV store during maintenance.
- PD: Resigns a leader if the current PD instance is the PD leader

It is important to note that this watching script is specifically designed for TiDB clusters deployed using the [TiDB Operator](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb-in-kubernetes/dev/tidb-operator-overview), which offers enhanced management functionalities for TiDB in Kubernetes environments.

The purpose of the watching script is to detect maintenance events initiated by Google Cloud. When such events are detected, appropriate actions can be taken to minimize disruption and optimize the cluster's behavior.

By utilizing the watching script and taking necessary actions during maintenance events, TiDB clusters can better handle live migration events on Google Cloud and ensure smoother operations with minimal impact on query processing and response times.

> ## PD tuning for a large-scale, high queries per second (QPS) TiDB cluster.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## PD tuning for a large-scale TiDB cluster with high QPS
```

In a TiDB cluster, a single active Placement Driver (PD) server is used to handle crucial tasks such as serving the TSO (Timestamp Oracle) and processing requests. However, relying on a single active PD server can limit the scalability of TiDB clusters.

> ### Symptoms of PD limitation

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

### Symptoms of PD limitation
```

---

> title: TiDB Best Practice On Public Cloud

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
title: TiDB Best Practices on Public Cloud
```

summary: This document introduces the best practice for TiDB to deploy on public cloud
---

> # TiDB Best Practice On Public Cloud

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
# TiDB Best Practices on Public Cloud
```

| ------------- | ------------- | ------------- |------------- |------------- |
| QPS (K/s) | Sysbench `oltp_read_write` | 60.7 | 71.5 | 17.8| 
| QPS (K/s) | TPC-C | 23.9 | 30.5 | 27.6| 
| AVG Latency (ms)| Sysbench `oltp_read_write` |  4.5 | 3.8 | -15.6 |
| AVG Latency (ms)| TPC-C |  3.9 | 3.0 | -23.1 |

### Example 3: Attach a dedicated pd-ssd disk on Google Cloud for Raft Engine on TiKV manifest

The following TiKV configuration example shows how to attach an additional 512GB [pd-ssd](https://cloud.google.com/compute/docs/disks#disk-types/) disk to a cluster on Google Cloud deployed by [TiDB Operator](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb-in-kubernetes/stable), with `raft-engine.dir` configured to store Raft Engine logs to this specific disk.

```
tikv:
    config: |
      [raft-engine]
        dir = "/var/lib/raft-pv-ssd/raft-engine"
        enable = true
        enable-log-recycle = true
    requests:
      storage: 4Ti
    storageClassName: pd-ssd
    storageVolumes:
    - mountPath: /var/lib/raft-pv-ssd
      name: raft-pv-ssd
      storageSize: 512Gi
```

## Reduce compaction IO flow in KV RocksDB

> As the storage engine of TiKV, [RocksDB](https://rocksdb.org/) is used to store user data. However, because the provisioned IO throughput on cloud EBS is usually limited due to cost considerations, RocksDB might exhibit high write amplification, and the disk throughput might become the bottleneck for the workload. As a result, the total number of pending compaction bytes grows over time and triggers flow control, which indicates that TiKV lacks sufficient disk bandwidth to keep up with the foreground write flow. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
As the storage engine of TiKV, [RocksDB](https://rocksdb.org/) is used to store user data. Because the provisioned IO throughput on cloud EBS is usually limited due to cost considerations, RocksDB might exhibit high write amplification, and the disk throughput might become the bottleneck for the workload. As a result, the total number of pending compaction bytes grows over time and triggers flow control, which indicates that TiKV lacks sufficient disk bandwidth to keep up with the foreground write flow. 
```

To detect live migration events initiated by Google Cloud and mitigate the performance impact of these events, TiDB provides a [watching script](https://github.com/PingCAP-QE/tidb-google-maintenance) based on Google's metadata [example](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/python-docs-samples/blob/master/compute/metadata/main.py). You can deploy this script on TiDB, TiKV, and PD nodes to detect maintenance events. When a maintenance event is detected, appropriate actions can be taken automatically as follows to minimize disruption and optimize the cluster behavior:

- TiDB: Takes the TiDB node offline by cordoning it and deleting the TiDB pod. This assumes that the node pool of the TiDB instance is set to auto-scale and dedicated to TiDB. Other pods running on the node might experience interruptions, and the cordoned node is expected to be reclaimed by the auto-scaler.
- TiKV: Ecivts leaders on the affected TiKV store during maintenance.

> - PD: Resigns a leader if the current PD instance is the PD leader

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- PD: Resigns a leader if the current PD instance is the PD leader.
```

## PD tuning for a large-scale TiDB cluster with high QPS

In a TiDB cluster, a single active Placement Driver (PD) server is used to handle crucial tasks such as serving the TSO (Timestamp Oracle) and processing requests. However, relying on a single active PD server can limit the scalability of TiDB clusters.

### Symptoms of PD limitation
The following diagrams show the sympotoms of a large cluster deployment consisting of three PD servers, each equipped with 56 CPUs. From these diagrams, it is observed that when the query per second (QPS) exceeds 1 million and the TSO (Timestamp Oracle) requests per second surpass 162,000, the CPU utilization reaches approximately 4,600%. This high CPU utilization indicates that the PD leader is experiencing a significant load and is running out of available CPU resources.

![pd-server-cpu](/media/performance/public-cloud-best-practice/baseline_cpu.png)
![pd-server-metrics](/media/performance/public-cloud-best-practice/baseline_metrics.png)

### Tune PD performance

To address the high CPU utilization issue in the PD server, you can make the following tuning adjustments:

#### Adjust PD configuration

> `tso-update-physical-interval`: This parameter controls the interval at which the PD server updates the physical TSO batch. By reducing the interval, the PD server can allocate TSO batches more frequently, thereby reducing the waiting time for the next allocation.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
[`tso-update-physical-interval`](/pd-configuration-file#tso-update-physical-interval): This parameter controls the interval at which the PD server updates the physical TSO batch. By reducing the interval, the PD server can allocate TSO batches more frequently, thereby reducing the waiting time for the next allocation.

```

```
tso-update-physical-interval = "10ms" # default: 50ms
```

#### Adjust a TiDB global variable

In addition to the PD configuration, enabling the TSO client batch wait feature can further optimize the TSO client's behavior. To enable this feature, you can set the global variable [`tidb_tso_client_batch_max_wait_time`](/system-variables.md#tidb_tso_client_batch_max_wait_time-new-in-v530) to a non-zero value.

```
set global tidb_tso_client_batch_max_wait_time = 2; # default: 0
```

#### Adjust TiKV configuration

To reduce the number of Regions and alleviate the heartbeat overhead on the system, it is recommended to increase the Region size in the TiKV configuration from `96MB` to `256MB`.

```
[coprocessor]
  region-split-size = "256MB"
```

## After Tuning

After the tunning, the following effects can be observed:

> - The TSO requests per second have decreased to 64,800.
> - The CPU utilization has significantly reduced from approximately 4,600% to 1,400%.
> - The P999 value of `PD server TSO handle time` has decreased from 2ms to 0.5ms.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- The TSO requests per second are decreased to 64,800.
- The CPU utilization is significantly reduced from approximately 4,600% to 1,400%.
- The P999 value of `PD server TSO handle time` is decreased from 2ms to 0.5ms.
```

These improvements indicate that the tuning adjustments have successfully reduced the CPU utilization of the PD server while maintaining stable TSO handling performance.

![pd-server-cpu](/media/performance/public-cloud-best-practice/after_tuning_cpu.png)
![pd-server-metrics](/media/performance/public-cloud-best-practice/after_tuning_metrics.png)

# Conclusion
By following these best practices, TiDB deployments on public cloud platforms can achieve exceptional performance, cost efficiency, reliability, and scalability. 

> The key practices include the following:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The key practices in this document include the following:
```

> - Select the appropriate dedicated disk type and size for optimal storage performance with Raft-Engine, 
> - Tune TiKV's compaction settings to improve resource utilization and reduce IO throughput, 
> - Minimize cross-AZ read traffic to optimize costs, 
> - Mitigate performance impact during maintenance events by leveraging notifications and taking appropriate actions
> - Tuning the PD server to address scalability bottlenecks.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Select an appropriate dedicated disk type and size for optimal storage performance with Raft Engine
- Tune TiKV's compaction settings to improve resource utilization and reduce IO throughput
- Minimize cross-AZ read traffic to optimize costs
- Mitigate performance impact during maintenance events by leveraging notifications and taking appropriate actions
- Tuning the PD server to address scalability bottlenecks
```
